now this is phase five of the chisel
trainer program the maintenance phase
now this phase is not necessarily
designed for you to burn fat but to help
you maintain everything that you've
achieved for the first four phases
so what you're gonna be able to do in
this phase is repeat it for as long as
you need until you're ready to start the
program again and get better results
that's pretty much what I do I mean I go
hard for six to seven weeks and then I
give my body one maintenance week when
I'm maintaining that same level of body
fat and then I start the program again I
don't want to overwhelm myself with
workouts and and diet and train in the
cardio so I designed this phase to
actually help me achieve that without
stressing and overloading my system so
at phase five what I did was I didn't
lay out specifically what you're gonna
work out every single day but instead I
wrote an entire workout that targets
every single muscle group and you choose
how many days you want to train but you
must be trained in at least three times
a week
so this is the outline of what the
workouts are gonna look like in this
phase you're gonna be doing push-ups
pull-ups and muscle ups bench press with
dumbbells bent over barbell rows squats
linear jammers and box trims the rep
rate for this cycle is gonna look
something like this we're gonna be doing
four sets of ten reps resting for about
45 seconds each when it comes to the
body weight exercises like push-ups or
pull-ups or muscle ups or even box jumps
you're gonna be doing those to fill this
workout is actually fairly quick it
should take you a 45 minutes to an hour
to complete
so some of your gonna be excited because
in this days there's actually no cardio
and the reason is the phrase before we
did AM and PM cardio where we burn as
much body fat as possible so now you're
just gonna be maintaining what you've
already achieved in the first four
phases we were slowly decreasing the
amount of calories we were in taking but
now the maintenance phase we're gonna
bring it back up because you're gonna
want to put on more muscle so in order
to bring your calories back up what we
did was we increase the amount of
protein and carbs that you're taking but
keeping your fats to say so for our a
hundred and eighty five pound male
you're gonna be taking in two hundred
and thirty grams of protein 280 grams of
carbs and 70 grams of fat for a total of
twenty six hundred and fifty calories
but to find out the specific
macronutrient breakdown for your body
type we have a calculator for you on the
page below so in this phase when it
comes to nutrition you're still gonna be
keeping your carbs around your workouts
you're still gonna be eating four meals
a day so here's one of my favorite meals
that I really enjoy in this phase oats
and turkey sausage what I do is I take a
half a cup of oats make some whey
protein in it and then I have certain
sauces with it and why do I choose
turkey sausage why because it's just
lean protein
now for Phase five your supplements are
gonna stay consistent just like in every
other phase we're still gonna be taking
in your whey protein the BCAAs your
creatine beta-alanine your caffeine your
multivitamin and your Omega threes we
don't cycle off full of these
supplements
the reason why because you want to be
able to continue this program year-round
and the only way you can achieve those
same results is by keeping your
supplementation the same
and that's the maintenance base now you
continue this phase for no more than two
weeks and you can continue this program
again and again and again to have to see
newest results just like I've done over
the past five years
you always want to challenge yourself
more elevate yourself push yourself and
cannot sit on your laurels all the time
the only people that succeed
continuously and have great success is
the ones that challenge themselves they
achieve a goal they merely set up next
one
remember we're shooting to be
extraordinary and the difference between
the ordinary and extraordinary that a
little bit extra
now we decide to start the program again
refer back to your bodies base account
and view your lifting stats and try to
beat it the next time around and
continue tracking your progress
all the details for Phase five are
broken down from the page below here on
bodybuilding.com
you